I WANT TO GO BACK TO NIC
ROBERTSON, WHO IS THERE ON THE
GROUND IN ISRAEL.
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING RIGHT NOW?
>> Reporter: I JUST TOLD YOU
WHEN WE WERE SPEAKING A COUPLE
MINUTES AGO THERE WAS TWO
MINUTES OF SILENCE.
IT'S NOT SILENT ANYMORE.
THE GUNS HAVE PICKED UP AGAIN.
YOU'RE HERG THE FIGHTER JETS
AND, PLOEGSS.
SOME OF THEM HEAVY BEHIND US.
WE ALSO JUST SAW A FLASH ON THE
SKYLINE.
DIDN'T HEAR AN EDUCATION PLOEX
INDICATING IT COULD BE SOME
DISTANCE AWAY.
BUT IF WE HAD A SENSE A FEW
MINUTES AGO THE BOMBARDMENT OF
EARLIER MIGHT HAVE BEEN EASING
OFF, I THINK THE LAST TWO
MINUTES HERE, WHILE YOU HAVE
BEEN TALKING TO THE CONGRESSMAN,
IT'S REALLY PICKED UP AND
INTENSIFIED.
I THINK IT WILL DO THIS FOR SOME
TIME.
THE FLUCTUATION, I CAN HEAR
ARTILLERY FIRING FROM THIS
DIRECTION.
POSSIBLY WOL HEAR THE IMPACTS
FROM GAZA.
SOME OF THE IMPACTS HAVE BEEN
EXCEPTIONALLY LOUD AND STRONG.
YOU CAN FEEL THEM SHAKING THE
GROUND HERE.
NOT CLEAR PRECISELY WHAT THE
TARGETS ARE OTHER THAN HAMAS AND
ITS INFRASTRUCTURE.
NOT CHEER LOW THE REST WILL ROLL
OUT.
BUT WHAT WE'RE SEEING AND
FEELING IS QUANTIFY BLISS A STEP
UP FROM PREVIOUS NIGHTS.
>> AND I JUST WANT TO UNDERSCORE
SOMETHING THAT YOU TALKED ABOUT
EARLIER AND THAT ALEX MARQUARDT
HAS BEEN REPORTING ON AND BECKY
ANDERSON AS WELL.
WHICH IS SOURCES SAYING THERE
WERE SIGNIFICANT DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT HOSTAGES.
MORE THAN 200 HOSTAGES BEING
HELD ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
BORDER FROM WHERE YOU ARE, AND
THE QUESTION THAT YOU POSED, AS
YOU'RE SEEING THE INCREASE IN
ACTION RIGHT BEFORE YOUR EYES,
HOW THAT COULD IMPACT THE
ABILITY TO GET THE HOSTAGES OUT
AND WHETHER THERE'S ANY
CONNECTION AT THIS POINT.
>> Reporter: THE DIPLOMACY
AROUND THE TABLE IS IN ESSENCE
HOSTAGES FOR HUMANITARIAN AID.
A HUMANITARIAN PAUSE OR HAMAS
HAS SDD FOR A FIFTH-DAY
CEASE-FIRE.
THEY ARE NOT ABOUT TO HAVE A
THERE'S BEEN INCREASING PRESSURE
AND USING WITH LANGUAGE FROM
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES.
THE EUROPEAN UNION PUTING YOU'RE
PROBABLY SEEING SOME OF THE
FLSHS BEHIND ME OF SOME OF THE
STRIKES UNDERWAY.
WE'RE HEARING THE FIGHTER JET.
THAT BLAST THAT YOU HEARD THERE,
I'M ASSUMING YOU COULD HEAR IT,
WAS THE SORT OF THING WE HAVE
JUST BEEN HEARING REPEATED,
REPEATED, REPEATED OVER THE PAST
FEW HOURS.
THAT SEEMS TO HAVE A MISSILE
FROM A FIGHT JET.
BUT THE IDEA THAT HAMAS WAS
TALKING ABOUT A CEASE-FIRE, THE
IDEA THAT THE HOSTAGE RELEASE
COULD COME AS PART OF A DEAL
WHERE THERE COB A THIS IS ALL
DIPLOMACY, BUT THERE'S ANOTHER
PART OF THE EQUATION AND THAT'S
THE MILITARY PART.
BOTH SIDES GO TOE TO TOE, MAKE
THEIR DEMANDS, WAIT FOR THE
OTHER SIDE TO TAKE CONCESSION
ISES.
THESE ARE CONCESSIONS, AS WE
SAY, OVER FUEL INTO GAZA OR
HUMANITARIAN AID.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO THE TWO SIDES
ARE GOING TOE TO TOE IN MILITARY
TERMS WAITING FOR THE OTHERS TO
BACK DOWN.
IT WAS ONLY A FEW HOURS THEY
WERE FIRING ROCKETS INTO TEL
AVIV THAT HIT AN APARTMENT
THERE.
THE IDF CLEARLY STEPPING UP ITS
ACTION IN THIS PART OF GAZA
TONIGHT.
SO THESE ARE ALL WAYS OF
PRESSURING THE OTHER SIDE AND
WHERE THE TALKS NOW STAND, AS
THERE IS NOT A CLEAR PAUSE IN
THE MILITARY OFFENSE.
THE REVERSE WOULD SAY AN A
ESCALATION.
IT'S WORTH POINTING OUT A WEEK
AGO TODAY, FRIDAY LAST WEEK,
THERE WAS INTENSE DID YOU WANT
SIT
DIPLOMACY BEHIND THE SCENES FOR
THE RELEASE OF THE AMERICAN
HOSTAGES.
LATE FRUD NIFRIDAY NIGHT.
IT WAS VERY QUIET IN MILITARY
TERMS.
WE BARELY HEARD ANY SHELLING OR
ANY AIRCRAFT STRIKES, COMPARE
AND CONTRAST THAT TO NOW TO
TODAY, YOU GET THAT REAL SENSE
THAT IF IT TALKED TWO DAYS TO
RELEASE TWO HOSTAGES, ABSENT ANY
PAUSE, PERHAPS THE RELEASE OF 50
HOS
HOSTAGES.
>> STANDBY.
LET US KNOW IF THERE'S ANYTHING.
I WANT TO GET TO JEREMY DIAMOND
IN ISRAEL.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING FROM
SOURCES THERE?
>> JUST LIKE NIC, WE HEARD
EARLIER IN THE DAY THERE WAS
PERHAPS SOME PROGRESS IN THE
HOSTAGE NEGOTIATIONS, BUT NOW
WHAT WE ARE HEARING ARE THE
SOUNDS OF WAR.
THE MOST INTENSE BOMBING AT
LEAST IN TERMS OF WHAT I CAN
HEAR FROM MY POSITION HERE IN
ASHKELON THAT I HAVE HEARD IN
THE THREE WEEKS I HAVE BEEN HERE
COVERING THIS WAR.
WE ARE HEARING INTENSE AND
REPETITIVE THUDS, BOMBING,
ARTILLERY, ALSO CLEARLY GOING
OUT.
WHAT WE'RE ALSO SEEING IS HAMAS
RESPONDING WITH AT LEAST TWO
ROCKET BARGES TOWARDS SEVERAL
ISRAEL AND HERE TOWARDS
ASHKELON.
SO THIS IS CERTAINLY TAKING ON A
DIFFERENT TONE AND TENOR FROM
HERE.
IT'S HEART TO SAY IF THIS IS THE
FINNING OF THAT INVASION, THAT
THEY HAVE MADE CLEAR THAT WILL
BE HAPPENING AT SOME POINT.
WE KNOW THAT IN RECENT DAYS,
ISRAELI OFFICIALS HAD CLEARLY
TOLD AMERICANS THEY WERE WILLING
TO GIVE THEM A FEW DAY OS TO SEE
HOW THESE HOSTAGE NEGOTIATIONS
DEVELOPED.
WHILE WE DON'T KNOW OFFICIAL WLI
WHETHER THOSE TALKS HAVE
COMPLETELY COLLAPSED, WHAT IS
CLEAR IS THAT ISRAELI OFFICIALS
WERE NOT GOING TO WAIT
INDEFINITELY IN ORDER TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH THEIR GROUND
CAMPAIGN.
AGAIN, WE ADOPT KNOW WHETHER
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE STARTING TO
SEE ON THE GROUND.
WE'RE SEEING AN INTENSIFICATION
OF A STRIKE ON GAZA.
THERE'S ALSO REPORTS OF
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BEING OUT.
IN ADDITION, WE KNOW IN RECENT
DAYS, WE HAVE SEEN A STEPPED UP
PACE.
NOT ONLY OF THE AIRSTRIKES, NOT
ONLY OF THE TARGETING OF THE
ITEMS, BUT ALSO INCREASING RAIDS
INSIDE OF GAZA.
THERE'S BEEN TANKS GOING INTO
GAZA TO CARRY OUT TARGETED
RAIDS, TO TAKE OUT ONLY SOFT THE
TUNNELS AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHAT WE ALSO AWE LAST NIGHT WAS
THE FLO TILL LA 13 GOING INTO
SOUTHERN GAZA AND CARRYING OUT A
RAID THERE AS WELL.
ALL OF THAT IN THE LEAD UP TO
WHAT WE ARE NOW HEARING, WHICH
AGAIN IS A VERY SERIOUS
INTENSIFICATION OF AIRSTRIKES,
MUCH LOUDER BOMBING THAN WE HAVE
HEARD PERHAPS IN THESE NEARLY
THREE WEEKS OF THIS WAR.
>> JEREMY, THANK YOU.
STANDBY.
YOU WANT TO BRING IN GENERAL
MHURTLING, WHO WAS THE COMMANDIG
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES
ARMY EUROPE AND THE 7th ARMY
GENERAL.
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING WHEN YOU
HEAR OUR REPORTERS
>> WHAT I WOULD SAY IS THE
REPORTING IS EXCELLENT FROM
NORTHERN GAZA.
I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN THE SOUTH.
JEREMY TALKED ABOUT WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE SOUTHERN
EXTREME WITH THE ISRAELI NAVY
BUT ALSO IN KHAN YUNIS.
ARE THERE THE SAME KIND OF
EXPLOSIONS GOING ON IN THOSE
AREAS?
I THINK THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES ARE GOING TO HIT ALL
SECTORS OF GAZA.
JEREMY POINTED OUT OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL DAYS AN INCREASE IN AIR
STRIKES AND INCREASE IN
INTELLIGENCE PROBES BY GROUND
FORCES WHICH WENT INTO GAZA AND
THEN CAME OUT, WHICH TELLS ME
THEY WERE SEEKING MORE
INTELLIGENCE, MORE TARGETING
DATA, FOR A FINAL PUSH.
WHAT YOU'RE SEEING PRIMARILY, I
BELIEVE, FROM THE AIR FORCE AND
PERHAPS EVEN ARTILLERY FIRE FROM
OUTSIDE OF GAZA, IS A
PREPARATORY STANCE BY ISRAEL.
THEY ARE CONDUCTING FINAL PREP
FIRES, PUTTING A LOT OF FORCES
IN IT, AND REMEMBER, THESE
WEAPONS DON'T JUST KILL.
WHAT THEY'RE BOMBING GAZA WITH
AND HITTING THEM WITH ARTILLERY,
IT'S ALSO PSYCHOLOGICAL.
WHEN YOU'RE UNDER THAT KIND OF
FIRE AS A TERRORIST OPERATION,
YOU KNOW SOMETHING BIG IS
HAPPENING.
AND THEY'VE BEEN UNDER THESE
KIND OF BOMBS FOR THE LAST 20
DAYS.
AT THE SAME TIME AS NIC RIGHTLY
POINTED OUT, THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES HAVE BEEN MOBILIZED
ALMOST 20 DAYS NOW.
YOU CAN'T JUST KEEP A LARGE
FORCE OF 300,000 WAITING IN A
FIELD FOR THAT LONG.
THEY TEND TO START LOSING THEIR
EDGE.
AND THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT, THE
ONE MR. NETANYAHU WHO IS GOING
TO PULL THE TRIGGER AND START
THE OPERATION, AND ALL
INDICATORS ARE HE'S BEEN HOLD
BACK BECAUSE OF THE DIVISIONS
WITHIN HIS CABINET, WHEN HE DOES
THAT, HE HAS TO HAVE THE FULL
FORCE OF THE ATTACK GOING.
WHETHER OR NOT GROUND FORCES ARE
GOING TO COME IN AND GO BACK OUT
OR COME IN WRIT LARGE AND STAY,
YOU KNOW, THAT'S YET TO BE
DETERMINED.
BUT I WOULD SUGGEST IT PROBABLY
TONIGHT OR TOMORROW IS GOING
TO -- WE'RE GOING TO SEE SOME OF
THE MAJOR EFFORTS OF THE ISRAELI
DEFENSE FORCE GOING IN WITH MAIN
FORCES TO STRIKE SOME OF THE
TARGETS THEY'VE BEEN COLLECTING
INTELLIGENCE ON.